Classic Time Series Forecasting

As we can see on predictions' behavior, The autoregression (AR), The moving average (MA) and The Simple Exponential Smoothing (SES) methods are suitable for univariate time series without trend and seasonal components, while The Holt Winter’s Exponential Smoothing (HWES) metods are good for univariate time series with trend and/or seasonal components.

Also, The autoregression method showing accurate and fast prediction result, based on a linear function of the observations, while The moving average method requires more time and effort to process data to draw accurate conclusions based on a linear function of the residual errors from a mean process.

Whereas Simple Exponential Smoothing method result depends on exponentially weighted linear function and and inferior in accuracy to The Holt Winter’s Exponential Smoothing method because it taking trends and seasonality into account. 


Autoregressive Methods

I used the last 100 rows in each database to get visualization of Autoregressive prediction methods. As we can see after some training, The Autoregressive Moving Average (ARMA) method is very similar to The Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average (ARIMA) method, but second method includes also a differencing pre-processing step of the sequence to make the sequence stationary, called integration. They both are quite fast and they are showing a good prediction result. 

The Seasonal Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average (SARIMA) method is more complicated and slow. It takes mote time and memory to process a prediction becouse it combines the ARIMA model with the ability to perform the same autoregression, differencing, and moving average modeling at the seasonal level.

SARIMA method is great for univariate time series with trend and/or seasonal components, when ARIMA method is good just for univariate time series with trend and without seasonal components and ARMA method - for univariate time series without trend and seasonal components.


Data Verification

Data forecasting methods (ARIMA in our case) and Bitcoin price behaviour are both delicate and sensitive concepts that require combine and complicated approach to work with them. The new worldwide currency like Bitcoin behaviour is still really hard to predict even with help of modern forecasting methods.
